---
title: "Use the three passes as a reading funnel"
date: 2021-12-27
author: Enter your name
id: 20211227212548
---

# Use the three passes as a reading funnel

Related zettels
* [[20211227212724]] First reading pass to get a general idea in 10 minutes
* [[20211227212759]] Second reading pass to get the paper content in 1 hour
* [[20211227212834]] Third reading pass to virtually reimplement the paper in 4 hour

Tags: #reading

#### The three passes: general idea, content, reimplementation
> The key idea is that you should read the paper in up to three passes, instead of starting at the beginning and plowing your way to the end. Each pass accomplishes specic goals and builds upon the previous pass: The f irst pass gives you a general idea about the paper. The second pass lets you grasp the paper's content, but not its details. The third pass helps you understand the paper in depth. ([Keshav 2007:1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SPA6VZMX?page=1))

Use the three pass as a paper funnel?  
1\. general idea about the paper  
2\. content about the paper, but not the detail  
3\. the details (in-depth) ([note on p.1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SPA6VZMX?page=1))


#### Get the global optima and estimate reading time for a set of papers
> I've used this approach for the last 15 years to read conference proceedings, write reviews, do background research, and to quickly review papers before a discussion. This disciplined approach prevents me from drowning in the details before getting a bird's-eye-view. It allows me to estimate the amount of time required to review a set of papers. Moreover, I can adjust the depth of paper evaluation depending on my needs and how much time I have. ([Keshav 2007:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SPA6VZMX?page=2))

Value  
* Prevent going down in the rabbit holes before getting the bird eye view  
* Estimate time needed for reviewing a set of papers ([note on p.2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SPA6VZMX?page=2))